# Service Dependencies Map

```
                                   --> product service
                                 /
fe service --> gateway service --
                                 \
                                   --> inventory service
```

The `fe` service ask product information to `gateway` service, which then fetch name of product from `product` service, and available stock from `inventory` service.

# Prerequisite

1. Make sure to run command `sudo pact-go -l DEBUG install` to download and install the required libraries.

# Steps For Explaining The Demo

1. Run all services using this commands.
   
   ```
   // Run fe service
   PORT=8080 go run fe/main.go

   // Run gateway service
   PORT=8081 go run gateway/main.go

   // Run inventory service
   PORT=8083 go run inventory/main.go

   // Run product service
   PORT=8084 go run product/main.go
   ```
   
   Then, open `fe` service on http://localhost:8080, from there you can walk through the dependencies service via link provided in the response body.

   If you use other port than above, make sure you adjust:
   - `gatewayServiceBaseURL` variable in `fe/main.go`
   - `productServiceBaseURL` variable in `gateway/main.go`
   - `inventoryServiceBaseURL` variable in `gateway/main.go`

2. In consumer driven contract testing, contracts is defined by consumer. Review consumer test files written on `fe` and `gateway` services, eg:

   - Consumer test on `fe` service: `fe/consumer_test.go`
   - Consumer test on `gateway` service: `gateway/consumer_test.go`

3. Run all of them to get the sense of what they do.

   ```
   // Run consumer test on fe service
   go test -run Consumer$ -count 1 ./fe
   
   // Run consumer test on gateway service
   go test -run Consumer$ -count 1 ./gateway
   ```

   Note that it will generate pact contract files that define API contract between consumer and provider, eg:
   
   - Contract between `fe` service and `gateway` service: `fe/pacts/fe_service-gateway_service.json`
   - Contract between `gateway` service and `product` service: `gateway/pacts/gateway_service-product_service.json`
   - Contract between `gateway` service and `inventory` service: `gateway/pacts/gateway_service-inventory_service.json`

4. Those generated contracts need to be verified by provider so that we can be sure that the contract is valid. 

   Review verify provider test files written on `gateway`, `product` and `inventory` services, eg:

   - Verify provider test on `gateway` service: `gateway/provider_test.go`
   - Verify provider test on `product` service: `product/provider_test.go`
   - Verify provider test on `inventory` service: `inventory/provider_test.go`

5. Run all of them to get the sense of what they do.

   ```
   // Run verify provider test on gateway service
   go test -run ^TestPactProvider$ -count 1 ./gateway
   
   // Run verify provider test on product service
   go test -run ^TestPactProvider$ -count 1 ./product
   
   // Run verify provider test on inventory service
   go test -run ^TestPactProvider$ -count 1 ./inventory
   ```

6. Up to this point, to successfully verify `gateway` service, you must first run both `product` service and `inventory` service, otherwise it will fails because `gateway` service need to fetch product name from `product` service and available stock from `inventory` service.
   
   Lets kill inventory service to make the test fails.
   - Kill inventory service
   - Run verify gateway service
     ```
     go test -run ^TestPactProvider$ -count 1 ./gateway
     ```

   We can see the test is failing, which is expected. So we must run all dependency services to make it succeed. But it comes with a great cost, eg:

   - Complicating test data setup and teardown, hence hurt maintainability.
   - Hard to manage tightly coupled end-to-end test environments.
   - Bigger resource to run our test, hence costly.

   So how we tackle this issue?

7. This is where Pact can help us to run our contract test easily and efficiently. For above use case, we can use [pact-stub-service](https://docs.pact.io/getting_started/stubs) to replace `product` and `inventory` services with stub service using pact contract files generated by consumer tests on `gateway` service.

   Kill `product` service and `inventory` service, then run stub services using this commands:

   ```
   // Run stub product service
   pact-stub-service -p 8082 gateway/pacts/gateway_service-product_service.json

   // Run stub inventory service
   pact-stub-service -p 8083 gateway/pacts/gateway_service-inventory_service.json 
   ```

   After that, all we have to do is run our verify provider test again.

   ```
   go test -run ^TestPactProvider$ -count 1 ./gateway
   ```

   Now our test will succeed without having to run the world. It also good to know that our stub services are guaranteed to represent behaviour of the real service, so you can test with confidence.